Companies must measure the coral garden and create a 3D model of the garden area. The coral
garden will be constructed from ½-inch PVC pipe, will be between 1 meter and 2.5 meters in length,
approximately 36 cm wide and an unknown height. Eight 10 cm x 10 cm colored squares,
constructed from corrugated plastic sheeting, will be attached to the PVC of the coral garden.
These will be targets for modelling the coral garden.
The coral garden
Companies choosing to create a 3D model of the coral garden autonomously must use
photogrammetry to create a 3D model of the coral garden in a CAD program with the proper
dimensions displayed. Companies may manually maneuver around the coral garden to take
photos. Companies may transfer any images from the ROV to a computer or device at the mission
station. This transfer does not have to be done autonomously; it can be accomplished "by hand."
Companies are permitted to place an object of known dimensions (e.g., a ruler) on or near the coral
garden to assist in the measurements. Note that this object of known dimensions will count as
debris if it is not under control of the ROV or removed from the pool by the end of product
demonstration time.
Companies will receive up to 20 points for successfully modeling the coral garden via
photogrammetry. Successfully modeling the coral garden via photogrammetry is defined as the
coral garden displayed as a 3D image on a screen at the product demonstration station. The image
should be able to be rotated so that the station judge can view it from any angle. The 3D image
must show all eight targets (10 cm x 10 cm colored squares). Companies that display all eight
targets on their model will receive 20 points. If four to seven targets are displayed on the model,
companies will receive 15 points. If one to three targets are displayed, companies will receive 10
points. If no targets are displayed, but the company does display a 3D model, companies will
receive 5 points. 
2026 RANGER CLASS 28
Companies must also measure the length of the coral garden and use that length to scale the 3D
image accordingly. Companies will receive 10 points for successfully measuring the length of the
coral garden. Successfully measuring the length of the coral garden is defined as the company’s
measurement being within 5 cm of the true length. Companies must show the station judge their
measurement or explain how they are estimating the measurement; companies may not guess.
Once the company provides their length measurement (regardless if it is within 5 cm), the station
judge will provide the company with the true length of the coral garden. A company that does not
attempt to measure the length will not receive the true length of the coral garden from the station
judge and therefore cannot complete the scaling or height estimation steps.
Companies should use the true length provided by the station judge to scale their 3D model of the
coral garden. Companies will receive 5 points for successfully scaling their 3D model and
displaying the length measurement on that model. Successfully scaling the model and displaying
the length is defined as the station judge being able to see the true length displayed on the 3D
model.
Using the scaled length of the 3D model, companies must estimate the height of the coral garden.
The height includes the height of any PVC tees on top of the coral garden; the height measurement
is from the bottom of the coral garden structure to the top of the coral garden. Companies will
receive 5 points when they successfully estimate the height of the coral garden within 5 cm.
Successfully estimating the height of the coral garden is defined as using the 3D image properly
scaled for length to determine the height. The station judge must be able to see the height
displayed on the 3D model, and that height must be within 5 cm of the true height.